we begin with what's expected to be a
landmark hearing at the international
criminal court in the coming hours the
court will hear arguments on whether
Israel is committing genocide in its war
on Gaza well the case brought by South
Africa accuses Israel of violating the
1948 un genocide convention with mass
killings expulsions and statements
describing Palestinians as subhuman well
ahead of that hearing Israel has
continued to pound the Gaza Strip with
air strikes 25,000 Palestinians more
than 10,000 of them children have been
killed so far the UN says Gaza has
become uninhabitable where Palestinians
across the occupied West Bank have been
rallying in support of South Africa's
case the territory has seen a surge in
illegal settler activity attacks and
Israeli Army raids from the hag step
vasson begins our
coverage it's seen as one of the most
prominent cases in the more than 75 year
long history of the international court
of justice 17 judges will have to decide
if Israel is committing committing
genocide that is deliberately wiping out
Palestinians in Gaza as an ethnic group
entirely or in part the genocide
convention was anonymously adopted in
1948 after World War II a unified
commitment by the International
Community to never let atrocities like
the Holocaust happen again South Africa
decided to bring the case before the
world's highest court after un
resolutions calling for a stop to
Israel's actions in Gaza were either
vetoed or ignored by Israel there is a
compelling argument that genocide is
being committed um in Gaza on the basis
that there is an anhil or cleansing of a
civilian population and um also the the
the courts of Israel ministers and
Generals of the army aimed to to to to
unhate the entire population of
Palestine from from the Gaza St our
founding father has been very clear that
South Africa is not free until the
people of Palestine are free Israel
denies it is committing genocide calling
the case blood liable a false
anti-semitic accusation they say history
will judge South Africa the Israeli
delegation was not available to comment
Wednesday experts on international law
call it ironic that 75 years after the
genocide convention was adopted because
of the Holocaust it will be Israel that
will be in the dock facing genocide
accusations the stakes here at the peace
Palace in the ha are high because the UN
court is the highest body the UN has to
uphold international law South Africa
has asked the court for an urgent
injunction to stop Israel's military
campaign while cases at the icj usually
take years a decision on provisional
measures is expected within weeks the
prestig of the UN as a whole as a system
is hanging in the back balance here this
is a moment for the West to actually
answer to the um the sanctity of
international law that they have held so
sacred icj or World Court decisions are
binding but the court has no power to
enforce them recently Myanmar and Russia
ignored verdicts to stop potential
genocidal acts South Africa hopes that
if they win it will further increase
International pressure on countries like
the United States who are backing Israel
to more to stop the fighting step fast
in Al jazer deake well Stephanie DEA
joins us live now from occupied East
Jerusalem Stephie so what's been the
reaction to this in Israel so far and
what are we expecting uh on Thursday
then well Israel categorically denies
the charges we will be hearing from them
on Friday what we expect today is to
hear from South Africa their application
for preliminary measures basically to
argue that Israel is committing genocide
not preventing genocide not doing enough
uh to deal with those who are committing
genocide what's interesting is that
South Africa will be laying out a case
uh that goes back before October the 7th
this is to counter the argument that
Israel will be putting forward where
it's going to highlight um the
atrocities of Hamas committed on October
the 7th that what it is doing in Gaza is
self-defense that it is taking the
utmost care uh not to Target civilians
what Africa is going to argue going back
in time going back decades that this is
simply a pattern of Israel's occupation
of the Palestinian people and that it
has simply escalated um to unprecedented
levels now it is no coincidence that we
heard from the Israeli Prime Minister
Israel is taking this very seriously
indeed uh speaking in English late last
night issuing a statement uh to the
International Community and this is what
he had to say I want to make a few
points absolutely clear Israel has no
intention of permanently occupying Gaza
or displacing its civilian population
Israel is fighting Hamas terrorists not
the Palestinian population and we are
doing so in full compliance with
international law the IDF is doing its
utmost to minimize civilian casualties
while Hamas is doing its utmost to
maximize them by using Palestinian
civilians as human Shields the IDF urges
Palestinian civilians to leave War zones
by disseminating leaflets making phone
calls providing safe passage corridors
while Hamas prevents Palestinians from
leaving at gunpoint and often with
gunfire our goal is to rid Gaza of Kamas
terrorists and free our hostages once
this is achieved Gaza can be
demilitarized and deradicalized thereby
creating a possibility for a better
future for Israel and Palestinians
alike so South Africa will be pointing
at 3 three uh highlights of how they're
going to present this case one the uh
categoric military campaign the
extensive military campaign that Israel
has carried out knowing also how capable
Israel is carrying out Precision strikes
over 80% of the Gaza strips
infrastructure and homes have been
completely destroyed also the
humanitarian level the uh withholding of
humanitarian Aid the cutting off of
water of holding back its you know food
and medical supplies and third also it
will be highlighting the rhetoric that
has come out from the highest levels of
government here from the Israeli defense
Ministry even from the Prime Minister
from other ministers calling for the
burning of Gaza calling uh the
Palestinians in Gaza the same as human
animals would be dealt with as such
calling for the withholding the siege of
the Gaza Strip withholding water
withholding food um uh and it goes on so
all these things will be highlighted in
South Africa's uh case again these are
preliminary measures that South afria
Africa is calling for but legal analysts
will tell you uh that even if the court
will rule um that yes preliminarily uh
Israel is responsible for carrying out
acts of genocide or not preventing acts
of genocide it will have huge political
and diplomatic implications also Mor
morally and symbolically because the UN
genocide convention was set up after the
second world war in the wake of the
Holocaust um to try to ensure that
something like this would never happen
again to have Israel in the dock and
potentially accused of it uh certainly
sends a very powerful message all right
Stephanie DEA live for us there in
occupied East Jerusalem Stephanie thank
you